# Blockchain Summit

The Angelhack piqued my interest in Blockchain. I want to expand my adjacent possible so have come along today. 

**Where Will Blockchain Have The Most Impact?**

I missed the panel session: Where will Blockchain have the Most Impact, but understand it included people from logistics, finance and insurance (who presumably think there'll be plenty of impact in those areas). There is lots of private blockchain work going on. In the public blockchain, what about governance? How can you know that the information you're basing your business on is correct?

The next talk was on Decentralised Record Sharing. The main talk area was surrounded on all sides by other noise generating areas so it was hard to hear what he was saying. 

**Blockchain and Smart Contracts**

Applications
- pizza delivery etc.

The Blockchain and Smart Contract talk was a good comparison of Smart Contract technologies. Raised the issue of offline threats. What if someone pressures you to transfer money. Could you mitigate this with multiple signatures. Another approach is delayed payments that happen, say, a few days later.

**How Blockchain Will Fundemantally Change The way we do business**

Blockchain is an emerging market. Not many people have stood up a blockchain infrastructure.

Why is there so much interest?

We live in a world of business networks.

Wealth is generated by the flow of goods and services across business network in transactions and contracts.
Markets are central to this process:
- private and public

Think about how you control change of property.

For a property sale lawyers are the trusted third party in a property exchange. And it costs £3000.

Also think about your digital assets. there is no secondary market for that digital market. Children are back buying vinyl. There is a secondary market for vinyl.

Think about your digital identity. Medical information. Who are you going to authorise to see what, where and when?

Cash is an asset, but has the challenge of anonymity. Challenges AML and KYC.

Blockchain for businesses:
- shared
- replicated (near real-time)
- permissioned ledger

Try to go and buy and large value item, e.g. a car, for cash. It’s practically impossible. The dealership can’t take cash. They have to know AML and KYC.

A shared, replicated, permissioned ledger.

IBM is working with the Hyperledger Fabric project.

Open source, open standard, open governance.

Digital Trade Finance initiative … drop costs to around £200K.

In dispute resolution processes, you have to hold liquidity.

Food Trust … which food from which farm from which shop, is contaminated. In 5 minutes, not 10 days.

Spoke to:

* ZeroCash - seems to be a way to do currency transfers using agents at the edge of the network to make the digital to physical exchange
* Farmatrust.io - tracking pharma through the supply chain. Ensuring that counterfeit drugs aren't being introduced. If an existing identifier is used and sold that can be identified. Also the existing process is inefficient. And distributors don't always keep accurate records of how much of the product is sold. I was thinking how the process could be undermined. Could an outlet substitute counterfeit drugs for the real ones by replacing the package contents. They could, but this wouldn't be a scalable way to commit fraud.

**Botchain**

As AI becomes more prevalent the software won't change but the behaviour will. What happens when a bot makes a bad decision? (See Microsoft Tay etc.) Botchain is digital identify for AI bots.

**What Will It Take for Blockchain to Go Mainstream?**

Monty Munford raised the term "blockchain washing". That's where you put Blockchain on the front of your prdouct name.

Maria Gomez de la Villa ING.

In banking the problem was the fragmentation of the ledgers. How do you arrive at consensus? You have to trust someone else to do the right thing. We want to have the same version of the story relating to a payment at the same time.

Monty suggested "is it a case of the banks saying: no-one trusts us and now we’re going to get our house in order". Mariana replied that ING did 30 pilots. 2017 deployed 6 different products. Pilot schemes took a while because of regulation. Privacy, security.

Monty asked what are the issue. Maria replied: Regulation: invalid functionality of smart contracts. they are not legally enforceable. If something goes wrong, who do you go to?

KYC - legal fragmentation of regulation. Regulation requires me to have the whole record in my books. Another bank needs to have their own data.
In Belgium you can share and rely on each other’s KYC.

ING are taking it upon themselves to disrupt themselves.

Banking is at a tipping point. What will it take to go mainstream ? Pass regulatory approval, and infrastructure is in place. The hurdle for DLT is the same as blockchain.

Konrad Dobschuetz  Pfizer

They have 10 pilot projects in progress. The only one he can talk about is supply chain management. The others may involve patient data and people don't want to hear about how their data might be used. He has Blockchain companies coming to him wanting to work together and he asks them how they can add value. Last year in Pfizer it was AI. This year it's Blockchain. 

For Blockchain to go mainstream in pharma it takes cooperation. Otherwise it's not patient-centric. 

In pharma, in some markets anything needs to be approved by fax. Make a change. Twitter post. If someone hacks your health data or mis-uses it, you may never recover from that.

One of the areas for blockchain is the supply chain. 2-3 years from molecule to pill!!

Dmytro Apanasenko Bitfury

Dmytro working with it since 2016. Projects with governments and big enterprises. Useful to increase level of trust. You can check anything that is stored on the blockchain. They have a voting project in the UK. In Georgia storing information about ownership on the blockchain. Giving citizens an opportunity to look it up.

Dmytro - Ukraine online auction of arrested property. Had an auction before. Data was stored in a centralised place, and the auction result was fixed.

everyone’s waiting for regulation for it to become mainstream.

**Revolutionising Travel**

Blockchain
Revolutionising Travel & Transportation

Houman Godarzi, IATA

Some of thee things don’t represent the official position of IATA.

BSP = Billing and Settlement Plan. Airlines don’t want to deal with agents. So airlines deal with IATA for settlement.

90% of use cases don’t make sense. replace blockchain with database. However it’s useful when entities don’t trust each other.

Unique solution = unique combination. Disintermediation is not always a good thing.

Provenance - tracking something of value on a journey. Spare parts, valuables. Change in custody. Status is changing. History of this object.

Codifying agreements - e.g. airport charges. Every time an airpot goes through they need to pay for landing, pay for parking (paid per second). Count / reconcile / invoice / do the payment.

Tokenizing value - something that represents something else of value.

Certification - Heathrow doesn’t trust me but I need to prove that I’m a pilot.

iatacoin test the waters how they can accelerate movement of money from agents to airlines.

Even in Crypto channel it’s quite expensive to change from-to-from fiat currency.

travel blockchain = airline and airline suppliers.

Challenges:
- leverage public one
- enterprise solutions, e.g. Hyperledger
- or build from scratch

Hard fork means “developers not coming to an agreement”.

Enterprise

Custom
Governance/regulatory/scalability - it’s your choice

Recommendations
- understand the tech and get your hands dirty; so you can talk to vendors
- know what your goal is
- you don’t want to be a solution looking for a problem

**Blah**

Every Centrica van is an insurance claim being met.

Decentralised by design. Does interesting things to the relationship between the customer and supplier.

First issue is sustainability - existential threat.
Security - geopolitics … think about how you feel when your phone has 5% charge. What about if you apply that to a country.
Equity - if you want the first two how do you pay for it

Data tends to be chunky. Quartly systems. Industry resolves itself to half hour detail.

Distributed generations assets set to increase by 60% over the next 5 years.

75Bn devices connected in the next 5 years.

Distributed doesn’t sutomatcailly mean green. Diesel is the quickest way to put power in the grid.

Equity - it’s an interesting market when you start paying people to not use your product.

Data about where electricity was generated out onto the blockchain. Opportunity or threat?

Equity - some people don’t understand cryptocurrency. Does monetisation mean cryptocurrency or real money?

What do you do in a large company that’s 200 years old?

First thing:

- find yourself. Build something like robots. The people who build this are the people who he goes to to ask about solving problems.

Energy Web foundation - open source … for the energy market.

Understanding the Power of DLTs to Better Server Customers

G’man - Minshare
Nustay
Michael - LSE

Oracle - blockchain as a service coming soon.

Nustay - end consumer. 2.5trn dollars. Need consortium to support blockchain. https://nustay.com/

Can we have a bridge between Blockchains?

Mindshare - 10 players between advertiser and consumers. Everyone in the system knows only 1/3 of the information. Other people have the other 2/3.

http://www.thedrum.com/news/2017/11/23/mindshare-seeks-address-industry-issues-with-blockchain-after-partnering-zilliqa

"Blockchain performance is currently atrocious.” James Allerton Austin. It’s a technology in its infancy.

VISA 16K tps
Blockchain 10-250 tps

Oracle has invested in Hyperledger because it can be broken down and scaled.

Michael … customers shouldn’t care that it’s on Blockchain.

Focus on what you’re good at as a business. Does Blockchain solve a problem?

Nustay - the biggest problem with online reviews is fake reviews.

Monty - does Blockchain help to identify true reviews?

You need a DLT or blockchain when multiple people are involved and they don’t trust each other, or there is a need for a distributed ledger system Otherwise you could use a database.

Mindshare guy believes this can solve the problem of fake news, everyone was at the conference in Cannes.

Travel - IATA

LSE - provide infrastructure where there is none; rating capital can interact directly with investors







